README.md, before:

# ksw

Interactive Kubernetes context switcher for your terminal. Built in Go.

Navigate with arrow keys, fuzzy search by typing, pin your favorites, and switch contexts in milliseconds. Single binary, no runtime dependencies.

> Available for **macOS** and **Linux** (amd64 & arm64). Named `ksw` to avoid conflict with macOS built-in `kswitch` (Kerberos).

## Install

### One-line installer (macOS & Linux — easiest)

```bash
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/main/install.sh | bash
```

Automatically detects your OS and architecture (amd64/arm64) and installs to `/usr/local/bin`.

### Homebrew (macOS & Linux)

```bash
brew tap YonierGomez/kswitch
brew install kswitch
```

### Manual — Linux

```bash
# amd64 (x86_64)
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-linux-amd64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-linux-amd64
sudo mv ksw-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/ksw

# arm64 (AWS Graviton, Raspberry Pi, etc.)
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-linux-arm64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-linux-arm64
sudo mv ksw-linux-arm64 /usr/local/bin/ksw
```

### Manual — macOS

```bash
# Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3)
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-darwin-arm64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-darwin-arm64
sudo mv ksw-darwin-arm64 /usr/local/bin/ksw

# Intel
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-darwin-amd64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-darwin-amd64
sudo mv ksw-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/ksw
```

### From source

```bash
go install github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch@latest
```

## Usage

```bash
ksw                          # Interactive selector (fuzzy search)
ksw <name>                   # Switch directly (short name ok: ksw payments-dev)
ksw -                        # Switch to previous context
ksw @<alias>                 # Switch using alias
ksw history                  # Show recent context history
ksw history <n>              # Switch to history entry by number
ksw group add <name> [ctx]   # Create a group and add contexts to it
ksw group rm <name>          # Remove a group
ksw group ls                 # List all groups with their members
ksw group use <name>         # Open TUI filtered to a group
ksw group add-ctx <g> <ctx>  # Add a context to an existing group
ksw group rm-ctx <g> <ctx>   # Remove a context from a group
ksw pin <name>               # Pin a context to the top of the list
ksw pin rm <name>            # Unpin a context
ksw pin ls                   # List pinned contexts
ksw pin use                  # Open TUI filtered to pinned contexts only
ksw rename <old> <new>       # Rename a context in kubeconfig
ksw alias <name> <context>   # Create alias for a context
ksw alias rm <name>          # Remove an alias
ksw alias ls                 # List all aliases
ksw completion install       # Auto-install shell completion (~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc)
ksw completion zsh           # Print zsh setup line
ksw completion bash          # Print bash setup line
ksw -l                       # List contexts (non-interactive)
ksw -v                       # Version
ksw -h                       # Help
```

### Interactive TUI Navigation

| Key          | Action                              |
|--------------|-------------------------------------|
| Type         | Fuzzy filter in real time           |
| `↑` / `↓`   | Move up / down                      |
| `Home`/`End` | Go to top / bottom                  |
| `PgUp/PgDn`  | Jump 10 items                       |
| `Backspace`  | Delete filter character             |
| `Enter`      | Switch to highlighted context       |
| `Ctrl+P`     | Pin / unpin current context (★)     |
| `Ctrl+T`     | Jump to first pinned context        |
| `Ctrl+F`     | Toggle pinned-only filter `[★ pinned]` |
| `Ctrl+H`     | Toggle short name view (persisted)  |
| `Esc`        | Clear filter / Quit                 |
| `Ctrl+C`     | Quit                                |

### Short-name switching

You can switch to a context using just the cluster name, without the full ARN:

```bash
ksw eks-payments-dev
# ✔ Switched to arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev
```

If the name is ambiguous, ksw will show all matches:

```bash
ksw payments
# ✗ Ambiguous context 'payments', matches:
#   arn:.../eks-payments-dev
#   arn:.../eks-payments-qa
```

### Pinned contexts

Pin your most-used contexts so they always appear at the top of the list:

```bash
ksw pin eks-payments-dev     # Pin by short name
ksw pin ls                   # List pinned contexts
ksw pin rm eks-payments-dev  # Unpin
```

In the TUI, pinned contexts appear in **yellow** with a `★` marker. Press `Ctrl+P` to toggle pin on the current item, and `Ctrl+T` to jump to the first pinned context from anywhere in the list.

### Previous context

Switch back to the last context instantly — like `cd -` in bash:

```bash
ksw -
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-qa

# Toggle back and forth between two contexts
ksw payments-dev   # switch to dev
ksw -              # back to qa
ksw -              # back to dev
```

### History

Show the last 10 contexts you visited:

```bash
ksw history
#   Recent contexts:
#   1  arn:.../eks-payments-dev ●
#   2  arn:.../eks-payments-qa
#   3  arn:.../eks-payments-pdn
#   4  arn:.../eks-orders-dev
#   5  arn:.../eks-orders-pdn
```

Switch directly to any history entry by number:

```bash
ksw history 3
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-pdn

ksw history 5
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-orders-pdn
```

### Groups

Organize contexts into named groups and open the TUI filtered to only those contexts:

```bash
# Create a group with multiple contexts (short names or glob patterns)
ksw group add payments eks-payments-dev eks-payments-qa eks-payments-pdn
# ✔ Group payments — added 3 context(s)

# Use glob patterns to add all matching contexts at once
ksw group add payments "eks-payments*"
# ✔ Group payments — added 3 context(s)
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-dev
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-qa
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-pdn

# Open TUI showing only the payments group
ksw group use payments
# [payments] label shown in header, only 3 contexts visible

# List all groups
ksw group ls
# payments (3 contexts)
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-dev
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-qa
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-pdn

# Add a context to an existing group
ksw group add-ctx payments eks-payments-staging

# Remove a context from a group
ksw group rm-ctx payments eks-payments-staging

# Remove a group entirely
ksw group rm payments
```

### Aliases

```bash
ksw alias prod arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev
# ✔ Alias @prod → arn:.../eks-payments-dev

ksw @prod
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-dev @prod

# Aliases also work with short names:
ksw alias dev eks-payments-dev
ksw @dev
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-dev @dev
```

### Shell completion

```bash
ksw completion install   # Auto-installs in ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc
# ✔ Installed zsh completion in /Users/you/.zshrc
# Run: source ~/.zshrc
```

### Rename a context

```bash
ksw rename eks-payments-dev payments-dev
# ✔ Renamed arn:.../eks-payments-dev → payments-dev
```

## Configuration

All settings are stored in `~/.ksw.json`:

```json
{
  "aliases": {
    "prod": "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev"
  },
  "pins": [
    "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev"
  ],
  "history": [
    "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev",
    "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:444455556666:cluster/eks-payments-qa"
  ],
  "previous": "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:444455556666:cluster/eks-payments-qa"
}
```

## Requirements

- `kubectl` installed and configured

## License

MIT — Built by [Yonier Gómez](https://www.yonier.com)

Commit message:

docs: add quotes note for glob patterns in group add

README.md, after:

# ksw

Interactive Kubernetes context switcher for your terminal. Built in Go.

Navigate with arrow keys, fuzzy search by typing, pin your favorites, and switch contexts in milliseconds. Single binary, no runtime dependencies.

> Available for **macOS** and **Linux** (amd64 & arm64). Named `ksw` to avoid conflict with macOS built-in `kswitch` (Kerberos).

## Install

### One-line installer (macOS & Linux — easiest)

```bash
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/main/install.sh | bash
```

Automatically detects your OS and architecture (amd64/arm64) and installs to `/usr/local/bin`.

### Homebrew (macOS & Linux)

```bash
brew tap YonierGomez/kswitch
brew install kswitch
```

### Manual — Linux

```bash
# amd64 (x86_64)
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-linux-amd64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-linux-amd64
sudo mv ksw-linux-amd64 /usr/local/bin/ksw

# arm64 (AWS Graviton, Raspberry Pi, etc.)
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-linux-arm64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-linux-arm64
sudo mv ksw-linux-arm64 /usr/local/bin/ksw
```

### Manual — macOS

```bash
# Apple Silicon (M1/M2/M3)
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-darwin-arm64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-darwin-arm64
sudo mv ksw-darwin-arm64 /usr/local/bin/ksw

# Intel
curl -sL https://github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch/releases/latest/download/ksw-darwin-amd64.tar.gz | tar xz
chmod +x ksw-darwin-amd64
sudo mv ksw-darwin-amd64 /usr/local/bin/ksw
```

### From source

```bash
go install github.com/YonierGomez/kswitch@latest
```

## Usage

```bash
ksw                          # Interactive selector (fuzzy search)
ksw <name>                   # Switch directly (short name ok: ksw payments-dev)
ksw -                        # Switch to previous context
ksw @<alias>                 # Switch using alias
ksw history                  # Show recent context history
ksw history <n>              # Switch to history entry by number
ksw group add <name> [ctx]   # Create a group and add contexts to it
ksw group rm <name>          # Remove a group
ksw group ls                 # List all groups with their members
ksw group use <name>         # Open TUI filtered to a group
ksw group add-ctx <g> <ctx>  # Add a context to an existing group
ksw group rm-ctx <g> <ctx>   # Remove a context from a group
ksw pin <name>               # Pin a context to the top of the list
ksw pin rm <name>            # Unpin a context
ksw pin ls                   # List pinned contexts
ksw pin use                  # Open TUI filtered to pinned contexts only
ksw rename <old> <new>       # Rename a context in kubeconfig
ksw alias <name> <context>   # Create alias for a context
ksw alias rm <name>          # Remove an alias
ksw alias ls                 # List all aliases
ksw completion install       # Auto-install shell completion (~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc)
ksw completion zsh           # Print zsh setup line
ksw completion bash          # Print bash setup line
ksw -l                       # List contexts (non-interactive)
ksw -v                       # Version
ksw -h                       # Help
```

### Interactive TUI Navigation

| Key          | Action                              |
|--------------|-------------------------------------|
| Type         | Fuzzy filter in real time           |
| `↑` / `↓`   | Move up / down                      |
| `Home`/`End` | Go to top / bottom                  |
| `PgUp/PgDn`  | Jump 10 items                       |
| `Backspace`  | Delete filter character             |
| `Enter`      | Switch to highlighted context       |
| `Ctrl+P`     | Pin / unpin current context (★)     |
| `Ctrl+T`     | Jump to first pinned context        |
| `Ctrl+F`     | Toggle pinned-only filter `[★ pinned]` |
| `Ctrl+H`     | Toggle short name view (persisted)  |
| `Esc`        | Clear filter / Quit                 |
| `Ctrl+C`     | Quit                                |

### Short-name switching

You can switch to a context using just the cluster name, without the full ARN:

```bash
ksw eks-payments-dev
# ✔ Switched to arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev
```

If the name is ambiguous, ksw will show all matches:

```bash
ksw payments
# ✗ Ambiguous context 'payments', matches:
#   arn:.../eks-payments-dev
#   arn:.../eks-payments-qa
```

### Pinned contexts

Pin your most-used contexts so they always appear at the top of the list:

```bash
ksw pin eks-payments-dev     # Pin by short name
ksw pin ls                   # List pinned contexts
ksw pin rm eks-payments-dev  # Unpin
```

In the TUI, pinned contexts appear in **yellow** with a `★` marker. Press `Ctrl+P` to toggle pin on the current item, and `Ctrl+T` to jump to the first pinned context from anywhere in the list.

### Previous context

Switch back to the last context instantly — like `cd -` in bash:

```bash
ksw -
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-qa

# Toggle back and forth between two contexts
ksw payments-dev   # switch to dev
ksw -              # back to qa
ksw -              # back to dev
```

### History

Show the last 10 contexts you visited:

```bash
ksw history
#   Recent contexts:
#   1  arn:.../eks-payments-dev ●
#   2  arn:.../eks-payments-qa
#   3  arn:.../eks-payments-pdn
#   4  arn:.../eks-orders-dev
#   5  arn:.../eks-orders-pdn
```

Switch directly to any history entry by number:

```bash
ksw history 3
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-pdn

ksw history 5
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-orders-pdn
```

### Groups

Organize contexts into named groups and open the TUI filtered to only those contexts:

```bash
# Create a group with multiple contexts (short names or glob patterns)
ksw group add payments eks-payments-dev eks-payments-qa eks-payments-pdn
# ✔ Group payments — added 3 context(s)

# Use glob patterns to add all matching contexts at once
# Note: quote the pattern to prevent shell expansion
ksw group add payments "eks-payments*"
# ✔ Group payments — added 3 context(s)
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-dev
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-qa
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-pdn

# Open TUI showing only the payments group
ksw group use payments
# [payments] label shown in header, only 3 contexts visible

# List all groups
ksw group ls
# payments (3 contexts)
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-dev
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-qa
#   · arn:.../eks-payments-pdn

# Add a context to an existing group
ksw group add-ctx payments eks-payments-staging

# Remove a context from a group
ksw group rm-ctx payments eks-payments-staging

# Remove a group entirely
ksw group rm payments
```

### Aliases

```bash
ksw alias prod arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev
# ✔ Alias @prod → arn:.../eks-payments-dev

ksw @prod
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-dev @prod

# Aliases also work with short names:
ksw alias dev eks-payments-dev
ksw @dev
# ✔ Switched to arn:.../eks-payments-dev @dev
```

### Shell completion

```bash
ksw completion install   # Auto-installs in ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc
# ✔ Installed zsh completion in /Users/you/.zshrc
# Run: source ~/.zshrc
```

### Rename a context

```bash
ksw rename eks-payments-dev payments-dev
# ✔ Renamed arn:.../eks-payments-dev → payments-dev
```

## Configuration

All settings are stored in `~/.ksw.json`:

```json
{
  "aliases": {
    "prod": "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev"
  },
  "pins": [
    "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev"
  ],
  "history": [
    "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:111122223333:cluster/eks-payments-dev",
    "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:444455556666:cluster/eks-payments-qa"
  ],
  "previous": "arn:aws:eks:us-east-1:444455556666:cluster/eks-payments-qa"
}
```

## Requirements

- `kubectl` installed and configured

## License

MIT — Built by [Yonier Gómez](https://www.yonier.com)
